---
layout: post
title: "My Stephen's Sausage Roll Epiphany"
date: 2017-05-19 18:00:00 -0800
categories: development, games, sausages
---

It is said that after experiencing a creative work of true quality, you will find at the end that you are a different person than when you first began. I just experienced this, in a game where you roll sausages around with a fork.

Stephen's Sausage Roll is one of the most challenging, rewarding, and well designed puzzle games I have ever played. Go play it, and come back when you're done, because I'm about to spoil one of the levels.

I'm a programmer by trade, so it's no surprise I like puzzle games. I probably have above-average grit when it comes to puzzle games. I generally won't look up a hint to an individual puzzle until I have spent three or more hours in a state of being stumped. There is a puzzle in Stephen's Sausage Roll called Wretch's Retreat. I spent probably six hours total on the level. I spent about two hours mapping out all possible avenues that might lead to a solution, and then about four hours checking and re-checking, trying and retrying my attempts to try and figure out what I was missing. I made virtually no progress.

Eventually, I gave in. I turned to the internet and tried to find the tiniest little hint I possible could to nudge me in the right direction without giving it away.

I found this [steam discussion](https://steamcommunity.com/app/353540/discussions/0/357284767240671462/), which was the perfect hint. The author outlined all of their assumptions about the rules and logic of this level, and all the possible solutions and why none of them were viable. I nodded along as I read this, these were the same assumptions I had come to. Then, in a reply to his own post, the author said:

> Nevermind, I solved it. Unbelievable. Stuck on it for so long, as soon as I make a post it hits me. If anyone is wondering, the error was assumption (#2).

After reading this, I solved the puzzle in thirty seconds.

The hint hadn't told me what the solution was, or what I should try next, or what about my assumption was wrong. All it told me was that one of my assumptions was wrong. Which, of course it was, otherwise I would have solved the puzzle. But simply being told which one was enough to make me question that assumption in a way that clearly had not yet, and arrive at a solution almost immediately.

So, here's the epiphany. If I had itemized my assumptions in the same way, and one by one gone through them, trying actively to disprove them, I almost certainly would have arrived at the solution on my own. If I had told myself "Okay, let's pretend for just five minutes that this thing I'm certain is true is actually false, and try to demonstrate to myself why", I would have found the hole in my reasoning. I've solved a lot of puzzles in my life, and I've never explicitly had to do this before.
